(xylophone music)
It's masters.
Now I think this one will probably be two videos.
The first one with query of the data we loop over it.
We display it.
You should be able to do that part by-on your own
by now. 'Cause we've done that,
I don't know, 7,000 times already.
But the next part is going to be a little bit interesting.
I show you how to paginate data.
So like instead of having everything on one page,
I'm gonna show you how to have a little
next page, previous page, little numbers
of pages on it.
And when you click it, you can go through it.
So let's jump into that now.
We'll go to our pages and we'll
open up slice master dot JS.
This nav is not necessary here now.
Now, like what do we need to do?
Well, we need to clear the data.
We need to go ahead and loop over the data and then we need
to display it and then we'll pick it up and come back and
modify that. So we can do page one, page two, page three,
et cetera, et cetera.
So let's export a default,
no export constant query is equal to graph QL.
And in that you will have a query where we, um
what, what did we call this? Slice masters.
Let's go to our Gatsby graph, QL end point.
Let's look at our Explorer here.
Um, all sanity person. Okay.
So it's not called slice.
I just call it slice masters in the backend.
But if you were to take a look at our actual schema,
uh, if we open up person dot JS,
you'll see the actual name of this type is person and the
title. What it's visible is slice masters.
So we'll go here.
We'll say all sanity person and we'll rename that
to slice masters.
And for each person we want.
Now here's interesting.
We were going to need to know how many people there are
in order to do all of our pagination.
So in order to get that we can query the total count.
And that will tell us how many people there are.
Because, um, when we come back and do pagination here,
we're not going to be crewing them all at once.
And therefore we won't be able to tell how many there are,
unless you ask graph QL for it. So here actually,
let me show you this, paste that in here, run it.
You'll see. It tells us there is 10 total people.
And that is right. If you look into our back end here,
there's 10 right here. Okay?
Next up we need each person. So nodes and you see name,
Uh, next up uh, we need each person, so notes
and name. You see now why we have this nodes thing,
because you can also query meta-metadata about that query,
like such as the total count.
So we want the name of the person, the idea of the person,
the slug, the current slug of the person
we want the description of the person.
Uh, we want their image.
And then the asset.
We want a fluid image of the person that max width is going
to be a 410 PX.
Um I'm not sure why I put the 10 PX on there,
but just live your life.
And then we get the data dot Gatsby, sanity image fluid.
Um, then we should be able to go up here, de-structure
that data. See const slice masters. Uh, slice masters
equal to data dot slice masters dot um, no notes.
And let's just do quick little console log the nodes and
check over. Oh, this is needs to be auto imported.
Boom import graph QL from Gatsby. Alright, let's
go back to this page here. We need to work on this.
On this responsive nav here so don't worry too much
about that. There we go.
There's our array of all of our 10 people and it's now being
rendered out.
So let's get into uh, creating a grid of the people here.
So get rid of this,
give ourselves a div uh, we'll loop over each of these
slice masters. So slice masters dot map,
and we will call a singular one.
Let's just call it person from each. We want to um-I
want the, I want parentheses.
I'm going to do the implicit return here.
So for each person will have a diff and then we'll have a
link to individual slice master.
Slice, master Forward slash person dot slug dot current.
And then inside of that link, one H two tag,
give ourselves a span of the class of mark
and we'll put their name in there, person name.
Okay. Let's let's save that so far.
A link will not work. Why?
Because we have not imported link from Gatsby.
So import link from Gatsby.
There we go. There's all the people.
Okay, good.
Then below that link, we want an image.
So let's import IMG from Gatsby image
here capital IMG.
And then we pass it the fluid,
which is person dot image dot asset,
which is person dot image dot asset dot fluid.
Looks like these folks are showing up there, Slick himself.
Okay.
Um. then below,
I'm going to paragraph with the class of description
and inside of that person dot description.
And does that person show up?
There we go.
You have all of the things. Okay.
So that's our basic rendering.
Um, let's work on some quick CSS to get it rendered out.
Uh-we need two different style components here,
one for the actual grid of people,
and then the second for the actual individual person.
So let's work on the grid first.
We'll call it Const slice master grid
is equal to style that div
got import styled. Good. We'll display grid,
grid gap to REM.
We're doing this a lot in this website.
So it might even make sense to make some sort of reasonable
grid component where maybe you could pass in like a CSS
variable or,
or just use a CSS variable that overwrites the number of
columns that you want.
So grid, template, columns.
Ooh, look at that little shortcut.
G T C, and then I'm hitting my Emmett expansion.
We're going to repeat auto fill.
Min-max 250 PX in one F R. Boom.
Gotta use the grid now.
So go and replace this div here with a slice master grid.
And you might be saying like West, why are you still,
why are you still using these?
And that's because we're gonna put our pagination right
above this. So keep these here.
Alright, here we go.
Look at that is looking pretty good.
Now let's go and do the styling of the
individual slice master.
Cause you can see like look at this.
Some of these images are really tall and some
of them are not.
So say const slice master styles SQL to
style dot div.
And it will say, Hey, text decoration, none.
We'll grab the image.
Now this is a little weird thing with Gatsby images.
If you want to grab the image,
you don't just select the IMG because it's wrapped in a div
and has all that extra stuff.
You grab the dot Gatsby image wrapper.
That's the class that Gatsby puts on that.
And we'll just say, we'll give it a height of 400 PX
and um, that didn't work. Okay.
Let me let's. Let's do Oh, why didn't it work?
Cause I didn't use it. I do this every single time.
I forgot to actually put the slice master styles in sort of
replaced that div where the actual slice master house.
There we go. Now this is so cool.
So remember when we used um, sanity and we said,
the image hotspot is equal to true.
Um now, if we have any of these P-these
are actually looking all
pretty good.
But if we had an image where somebody was not in the center
of the image and it was cropped, it wasn't
cropped well, what you can do is you can go and edit that.
Let's do Roscoe, you edit the image
and you'll see, we can,
you can put the little circle right around poor little
Roscoe's face.
And you see for all the different sizes of image,
the face is always in there.
So if you ever do have an image, that's being cropped weird,
especially like if like a phone or product or something is
off to the side, you can always hotspot it.
And then that way, when it decides how to crop the image,
it will make sure that that hotspot is always visible
inside of the crop, which is awesome.
Let's go back to our Gatsby front end here,
and we'll go back up here. Let's grab that.
H two tag, that's their name.
That little yellow that they have there.
Transform, rotate two degrees, negative two degrees,
text line line center, font size four REM margin,
bottom negative two REM position relative
and Z index two.
Ooh, look at that.
So it's just kinda, Oh,
it looks a little bit nicer to pop it right over top of it
and all that little short cutting that I just did.
That is Emmett in CSS.
And that's how I write almost all of my CSS. I never,
not never,
but a lot of the times I won't write the entire thing.
I'll just write the Emmett abbreviation and hit my expansion
key and it'll just go all the full way.
And that in that case, it worked for every single one,
which is really cool.
Next, we want to take the description and we'll put a,
a yellow background on it.
Our yellow
that's looking pretty good padding,
one REM margin to REM margin, top negative six REM.
And that should bump it up. Okay.
I think we need a Z index of two to pop it over top of the
image and the index is ignored unless you have a position of
absolute or relative, I think.
Yeah.
And then we will transform, rotate a one degree.
Beautiful.
Oh, I like it. I like it. I like it.
Maybe text line center on that. Does that,
will that look good?
Yeah, I like it.
Cool. So that is our slice masters.
Let's just make sure it's still somewhat responsive.
It is beautiful.
You see how the Roscoe let's watch how Roscoe's face-
no matter the size is always inside of it.
Alright, so that is getting the slice masters to show up.
But what if I only wanted to show two pieces of content per
page? So in the next video,
I'm gonna show you how we can start to implement pagination.